README.md, before:

# OpenAPI Typescript Codegen

[![NPM][npm-image]][npm-url]
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
![Build](https://github.com/devTeaa/codegen-openapi-ts/actions/workflows/CI.yml/badge.svg)

> Node.js library that generates Typescript clients based on the OpenAPI specification.

> This project is a fork from [Openapi Typescript Codegen](https://github.com/ferdikoomen/openapi-typescript-codegen) by [Ferdi Koomen](https://github.com/ferdikoomen), the reason is because I need some changes and use some of the lower level generated code that I can use on my projects.

## Why?
- Frontend ❤️ OpenAPI, but we do not want to use JAVA codegen in our builds
- Quick, lightweight, robust and framework-agnostic 🚀
- Supports generation of TypeScript clients
- Supports conversion from Swagger 1.x/2.x to OpenAPI 2.x/3.x with [`api-spec-converter`](https://github.com/LucyBot-Inc/api-spec-converter)
- Supports JSON and YAML files for input
- Supports generation through Node.js
- Supports tsc and @babel/plugin-transform-typescript
- Supports external references using [`json-schema-ref-parser`](https://github.com/APIDevTools/json-schema-ref-parser/)
- Supports generate multiple api based on config file 
- Supports fetching single file and generate type from that

## Install

```
npm install codegen-openapi-ts --save-dev
```


## Usage

**codegen.config.js**
```
codegen-openapi-ts --help
Usage: codegen-openapi-ts [options]

Options:
  -V, --version     output the version number
  --config <value>  Path to config file (default: "codegen.config.js")
  -h, --help        display help for command
```

**CLI**
```
codegen-openapi-ts-cli --help
Usage: codegen-openapi-ts-cli [options]

Arguments:
  from           Original response specification version
  source         Swagger/OpenAPI response url
  output         Output folder name (default: "output")

Options:
  -V, --version  output the version number
  -h, --help     display help for command
```

**Node**
```
OpenAPI.convertAndGenerate({
  from: string,           // swagger_1, swagger_2, openapi_3, api_blueprint, io_docs, google, raml, wadl
  to: string,             // swagger_1, swagger_2, openapi_3, api_blueprint, io_docs, google, raml, wadl
  source: string          // url or local file (JSON, YAML)
}, {
  input: string,          // generated conversion output path, also used as input
  output: string,         // generated output folder location
  useOptions: boolean,    // use options as url methods argument
  useUnionTypes: boolean  // use union types instead of enum
})
```


## Example
**codegen.config.js**
```javascript
'use strict';

module.exports = [
  {
    source: 'http://pokemon-api/docs/api',
    from: 'openapi_3',
    output: 'src/api-types/pokemon-api', // pokemon-api
  },
  {
    source: 'ssh://git@github.com/pokemon/pokemon-api.git HEAD docs/evolution-path.json',
    from: 'openapi_3',
    output: 'src/api-types/evolution-path', // evolution-path
  }, 
];
```

**CLI**
```bash
codegen-openapi-ts-cli swagger_2 https://pokemonapi/docs/api
codegen-openapi-ts-cli swagger_2 https://pokemonapi/docs/api pokemon-api
```

**fetch-schema.js (Node)**
```javascript
// fetch-schema.js
const OpenAPI = require('codegen-openapi-ts')

OpenAPI.convertAndGenerate(
  {
    from: process.argv[2], // swagger_2
    to: 'openapi_3',
    source: process.argv[3] // https://pokemon-api/docs/api
  },
  {
    input: 'scripts/api-schema.json',
    output: 'src/api-types/' + process.argv[4], // pokemon-api
    useOptions: true,
    useUnionTypes: true
  }
)
```
```json
// package.json
{
    "scripts": {
        "generate": "node fetch-schema.js swagger_2 https://pokemon-api/docs/api pokemon-api"
    }
}

// npm run generate
```
### Output folder
    .
    ├── ...
    ├── src                         # output value ('src/api-types/')
    │   ├── api-types               
    │   |   ├── pokemon-api         # output
    │   |   |   ├── models          # API schema models
    │   |   |   ├── services        # API service level with methods/url/response/request types
    │   |   |   └── index.ts        
    |   |   └── ...
    └── ...


## Features
### Nullable in OpenAPI v2
In the OpenAPI v3 spec you can create properties that can be NULL, by providing a `nullable: true` in your schema.
However, the v2 spec does not allow you to do this. You can use the unofficial `x-nullable` in your specification
to generate nullable properties in OpenApi v2.

```json
{
    "ModelWithNullableString": {
        "required": ["requiredProp"],
        "description": "This is a model with one string property",
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
            "prop": {
                "description": "This is a simple string property",
                "type": "string",
                "x-nullable": true
            },
            "requiredProp": {
                "description": "This is a simple string property",
                "type": "string",
                "x-nullable": true
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Generated code:
```typescript
interface ModelWithNullableString {
    prop?: string | null,
    requiredProp: string | null,
}
```

### References

Local references to schema definitions (those beginning with `#/definitions/schemas/`)
will be converted to type references to the equivalent, generated top-level type.

The OpenAPI generator also supports external references, which allows you to break
down your openapi.yml into multiple sub-files, or incorporate third-party schemas
as part of your types to ensure everything is able to be TypeScript generated.

External references may be:
* *relative references* - references to other files at the same location e.g.
  `{ $ref: 'schemas/customer.yml' }`
* *remote references* - fully qualified references to another remote location
   e.g. `{ $ref: 'https://myexampledomain.com/schemas/customer_schema.yml' }`

   For remote references, both files (when the file is on the current filesystem)
   and http(s) URLs are supported.

External references may also contain internal paths in the external schema (e.g.
`schemas/collection.yml#/definitions/schemas/Customer`) and back-references to
the base openapi file or between files (so that you can reference another
schema in the main file as a type of an object or array property, for example).

At start-up, an OpenAPI or Swagger file with external references will be "bundled",
so that all external references and back-references will be resolved (but local
references preserved).


FAQ
===

### Babel support
If you use enums inside your models / definitions then those enums are by default inside a namespace with the same name
as your model. This is called declaration merging. However, the [@babel/plugin-transform-typescript](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript)
does not support these namespaces, so if you are using babel in your project please use the `--useUnionTypes` flag
to generate union types instead of traditional enums. More info can be found here: [Enums vs. Union Types](#enums-vs-union-types---useuniontypes).

**Note:** If you are using Babel 7 and Typescript 3.8 (or higher) then you should enable the `onlyRemoveTypeImports` to
ignore any 'type only' imports, see https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript#onlyremovetypeimports for more info

```javascript
module.exports = {
    presets: [
        ['@babel/preset-typescript', {
            onlyRemoveTypeImports: true,
        }],
    ],
};
```

In order to compile the project and resolve the imports, you will need to enable the `allowSyntheticDefaultImports`
in your `tsconfig.json` file.


[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/
[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[coverage-url]: https://codecov.io/gh/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts
[coverage-image]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[quality-url]: https://lgtm.com/projects/g/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts
[quality-image]: https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[climate-url]: https://codeclimate.com/github/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts
[climate-image]: https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[downloads-url]: http://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=codegen-openapi-ts
[downloads-image]: http://img.shields.io/npm/dm/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[build-url]: https://circleci.com/gh/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts/tree/master
[build-image]: https://circleci.com/gh/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts/tree/master.svg?style=svg

Commit message:

added selectedOnly flag which only generate from urlMethodMapping

README.md, after:

# OpenAPI Typescript Codegen

[![NPM][npm-image]][npm-url]
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
![Build](https://github.com/devTeaa/codegen-openapi-ts/actions/workflows/CI.yml/badge.svg)

> Node.js library that generates Typescript clients based on the OpenAPI specification.

> This project is a fork from [Openapi Typescript Codegen](https://github.com/ferdikoomen/openapi-typescript-codegen) by [Ferdi Koomen](https://github.com/ferdikoomen), the reason is because I need some changes and use some of the lower level generated code that I can use on my projects.

## Why?
- Frontend ❤️ OpenAPI, but we do not want to use JAVA codegen in our builds
- Quick, lightweight, robust and framework-agnostic 🚀
- Supports generation of TypeScript clients
- Supports conversion from Swagger 1.x/2.x to OpenAPI 2.x/3.x with [`api-spec-converter`](https://github.com/LucyBot-Inc/api-spec-converter)
- Supports JSON and YAML files for input
- Supports generation through Node.js
- Supports tsc and @babel/plugin-transform-typescript
- Supports external references using [`json-schema-ref-parser`](https://github.com/APIDevTools/json-schema-ref-parser/)
- Supports generate multiple api based on config file 
- Supports fetching single file and generate type from that
- Supports only generate specified api based on the url and http method (v4.0.x)

## Install

```
npm install codegen-openapi-ts --save-dev
```


## Usage

**codegen.config.js**
```
codegen-openapi-ts --help
Usage: codegen-openapi-ts [options]

Options:
  -V, --version     output the version number
  --config <value>  Path to config file (default: "codegen.config.js")
  -h, --help        display help for command
```
```
'use strict';

module.exports = [
  {
    source: OpenAPI Swagger response (can check on the network response on the spec page),
    from: swagger_1, swagger_2, openapi_3, api_blueprint, io_docs, google, raml, wadl,
    output: output folder
    urlMethodMapping: [
      [api path, http method (get/post/put/delete), desired operation name]
    ],
    selectedOnly: this will make it so only generate services under urlMethodMapping, the default is false
  },
];
```

**CLI**
```
codegen-openapi-ts-cli --help
Usage: codegen-openapi-ts-cli [options]

Arguments:
  from           Original response specification version
  source         Swagger/OpenAPI response url
  output         Output folder name (default: "output")

Options:
  -V, --version  output the version number
  -h, --help     display help for command
```

**Node**
```
OpenAPI.convertAndGenerate({
  from: string,           // swagger_1, swagger_2, openapi_3, api_blueprint, io_docs, google, raml, wadl
  to: string,             // swagger_1, swagger_2, openapi_3, api_blueprint, io_docs, google, raml, wadl
  source: string          // url or local file (JSON, YAML)
}, {
  input: string,          // generated conversion output path, also used as input
  output: string,         // generated output folder location
  useOptions: boolean,    // use options as url methods argument
  useUnionTypes: boolean  // use union types instead of enum
})
```


## Example
**codegen.config.js**
```javascript
'use strict';

module.exports = [
  {
    source: 'http://pokemon-api/docs/api',
    from: 'openapi_3',
    output: 'src/api-types/pokemon-api', // pokemon-api
    urlMethodMapping: [
      ['get-pokemon-list/gen1', 'get', 'GetPokemonListGen1']
    ],
    selectedOnly: true
  },
  {
    source: 'ssh://git@github.com/pokemon/pokemon-api.git HEAD docs/evolution-path.json',
    from: 'openapi_3',
    output: 'src/api-types/evolution-path', // evolution-path
  }, 
];
```

**CLI**
```bash
codegen-openapi-ts-cli swagger_2 https://pokemonapi/docs/api
codegen-openapi-ts-cli swagger_2 https://pokemonapi/docs/api pokemon-api
```

**fetch-schema.js (Node)**
```javascript
// fetch-schema.js
const OpenAPI = require('codegen-openapi-ts')

OpenAPI.convertAndGenerate(
  {
    from: process.argv[2], // swagger_2
    to: 'openapi_3',
    source: process.argv[3] // https://pokemon-api/docs/api
  },
  {
    input: 'scripts/api-schema.json',
    output: 'src/api-types/' + process.argv[4], // pokemon-api
    useOptions: true,
    useUnionTypes: true
  }
)
```
```json
// package.json
{
    "scripts": {
        "generate": "node fetch-schema.js swagger_2 https://pokemon-api/docs/api pokemon-api"
    }
}

// npm run generate
```
### Output folder
    .
    ├── ...
    ├── src                         # output value ('src/api-types/')
    │   ├── api-types               
    │   |   ├── pokemon-api         # output
    │   |   |   ├── models          # API schema models
    │   |   |   ├── services        # API service level with methods/url/response/request types
    │   |   |   └── index.ts        
    |   |   └── ...
    └── ...


## Features
### Nullable in OpenAPI v2
In the OpenAPI v3 spec you can create properties that can be NULL, by providing a `nullable: true` in your schema.
However, the v2 spec does not allow you to do this. You can use the unofficial `x-nullable` in your specification
to generate nullable properties in OpenApi v2.

```json
{
    "ModelWithNullableString": {
        "required": ["requiredProp"],
        "description": "This is a model with one string property",
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
            "prop": {
                "description": "This is a simple string property",
                "type": "string",
                "x-nullable": true
            },
            "requiredProp": {
                "description": "This is a simple string property",
                "type": "string",
                "x-nullable": true
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Generated code:
```typescript
interface ModelWithNullableString {
    prop?: string | null,
    requiredProp: string | null,
}
```

### References

Local references to schema definitions (those beginning with `#/definitions/schemas/`)
will be converted to type references to the equivalent, generated top-level type.

The OpenAPI generator also supports external references, which allows you to break
down your openapi.yml into multiple sub-files, or incorporate third-party schemas
as part of your types to ensure everything is able to be TypeScript generated.

External references may be:
* *relative references* - references to other files at the same location e.g.
  `{ $ref: 'schemas/customer.yml' }`
* *remote references* - fully qualified references to another remote location
   e.g. `{ $ref: 'https://myexampledomain.com/schemas/customer_schema.yml' }`

   For remote references, both files (when the file is on the current filesystem)
   and http(s) URLs are supported.

External references may also contain internal paths in the external schema (e.g.
`schemas/collection.yml#/definitions/schemas/Customer`) and back-references to
the base openapi file or between files (so that you can reference another
schema in the main file as a type of an object or array property, for example).

At start-up, an OpenAPI or Swagger file with external references will be "bundled",
so that all external references and back-references will be resolved (but local
references preserved).


FAQ
===

### Babel support
If you use enums inside your models / definitions then those enums are by default inside a namespace with the same name
as your model. This is called declaration merging. However, the [@babel/plugin-transform-typescript](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-typescript)
does not support these namespaces, so if you are using babel in your project please use the `--useUnionTypes` flag
to generate union types instead of traditional enums. More info can be found here: [Enums vs. Union Types](#enums-vs-union-types---useuniontypes).

**Note:** If you are using Babel 7 and Typescript 3.8 (or higher) then you should enable the `onlyRemoveTypeImports` to
ignore any 'type only' imports, see https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-preset-typescript#onlyremovetypeimports for more info

```javascript
module.exports = {
    presets: [
        ['@babel/preset-typescript', {
            onlyRemoveTypeImports: true,
        }],
    ],
};
```

In order to compile the project and resolve the imports, you will need to enable the `allowSyntheticDefaultImports`
in your `tsconfig.json` file.


[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/
[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[coverage-url]: https://codecov.io/gh/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts
[coverage-image]: https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[quality-url]: https://lgtm.com/projects/g/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts
[quality-image]: https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[climate-url]: https://codeclimate.com/github/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts
[climate-image]: https://img.shields.io/codeclimate/maintainability/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[downloads-url]: http://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=codegen-openapi-ts
[downloads-image]: http://img.shields.io/npm/dm/codegen-openapi-ts.svg
[build-url]: https://circleci.com/gh/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts/tree/master
[build-image]: https://circleci.com/gh/ferdikoomen/codegen-openapi-ts/tree/master.svg?style=svg
